Durban - Twitter erupted today after it emerged that Dr Wouter Basson has been employed as a cardiologist at at least two Mediclinic facilities in the Western Cape. According to reports, Basson, dubbed Dr Death, has been working at the facilities for the last 15 years. According to the Mediclinic website, Basson practises at Mediclinic in Panorama and Durbanville. Basson was the mastermind behind a chemical weapons project between 1980 and 1990 that manufactured suicide pills and poisonous gases for the apartheid government. His research extended to anti-fertility drugs for ethnic cleansing.   In response to the backlash on Twitter, Mediclinic said "by law doctors are independent practitioners and cannot be employed by Mediclinic Southern Africa. We cannot prohibit HPCSA registered doctors, including Dr Basson, from practising unless they are prevented by law from doing so".  Good day, by law doctors are independent practitioners & cannot be employed by Mediclinic Southern Africa. We cannot prohibit HPCSA registered doctors, including Dr Basson, from practising unless they are prevented by law from doing so. Kind regards, the Mediclinic SA team.  But tweeps were having none of it. Dear @Mediclinic In which Universe do you think it is ok to employ a Doctor who was the former head of the Apartheid Government's chemical and biological warfare project, Project Coast where Black and Brown folk were murdered? pic.twitter.com/hsOBpriIzV  #MediClinic must do the right thing, before it's too late. Just brotherly advice https://t.co/BPUysntTe5  On #WouterBasson & #MediClinic @Mediclinic perhaps you need some reminding as to who is Wouter Basson. Basson led Project Coast which was aimed at targeting & killing black leaders & suppressing the Black Population! pic.twitter.com/aX7GRZKnUu  #dredeath #wouterbasson On ethnic cleansing - a project where black women were made infertile to control the population. “The most fun I’ve had in my life”. @Mediclinic pic.twitter.com/aIyAri8VjO  Basson was charged with 67 charges, included drug possession, drug trafficking, fraud and embezzlement, murder, conspiracy to commit murder and theft. His trial kicked off in 1999 and later that same year, six important charges, including charges of murder and possible involvement in 200 deaths in Namibia, were dropped by the presiding judge. After 18 months of the trial, the number of charges were reduced to 46. In 2006, the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) started its own process of investigating Basson’s conduct. A charge sheet was drawn up and the inquiry began in November 2007. Out of the seven charges levelled against Basson, four full indictments remain after the HPCSA discharged two charges and part of a third charge against him. According to Wikipedia: IOL