PayDay Software Systems is a leading and professional Payroll and Human Capital Software Company that adds value to businesses via the application of a client-oriented and user-empowerment approach, transforming strategic processes into value-added functions. At present PayDay caters for more than 40 tax countries, making us an industry leader in meeting the diverse and unique challenges presented by companies throughout the African continent. Since our inception in 1989, PayDay has always been on the frontier of cutting-edge technology, using only the best technological resources and support available and as a result, are able to provide a hybrid of offerings both on-premise and cloud-based. ON-PREMISE HYBRID OFFERING Includes PayDay Prime deployed on premise for access via the traditional desktop route in addition to accessing the system through the browser. CLOUD TRANSFORMATION Through cloud transformation PayDay can host and maintain a customer’s system and relevant data, offering businesses and its employees an enjoyable, stress free cloud experience. Our cloud-based solutions include PayDay Virtual – an online Payroll and Human Capital Software Solution; PayDay Visual – An enhanced Employee Self-Service (ESS) application; as well as PayDay Visible, a mobile app-based Time & Attendance system. OUR SOFTWARE Interacting with a great payroll software system that is simple to use and suits every aspect of your business is key to having a simplified approach to month end processes and other important admin work that can be time-consuming. We’ve made payroll easy by introducing superb, easy to use software that you can rely on. Our products are intuitive and exceptionally user-friendly. Our software is the result of much research and consultation with clients, all with the aim of finding out what they really need and want. Payroll Software Our PayDay software offering provides end-users with an accurate legislatively compliant and user-friendly payroll system. It can function perfectly on its own or it can be integrated with our HR software. Here are a few core features: Human Resource Software Our HR software will allow you to effectively simplify your workflow and ensure that everything is completed exactly when it should be. The entire employee life cycle can be managed all from this one simple system, adding to the departments overall efficiency. Some core features include: PayDay Visible - Time and Attendance This module consists of an automated time and attendance software feature that compliments PayDay’s existing suite. The biometric clocking system is simple to use and allows any authorised staff to review, edit and approve employee times. Some core features of our biometric clocking system include: PayDay Visual - Employee Self Service PayDay Visual is a whole new world of paperless technology that will help you streamline your HR processes and give your employees the convenience of instantly accessing their processed IRP5’s online and the option of printing them in their own time. You can streamline your business and save time with this employee self-service software. Here are a few core features: Trusted by more than 3500 corporate businesses across Africa and almost 50% of local government within South Africa, you can be sure that PayDay Software Systems will lead your business in the right direction. Visit our website for more information: www.payday.co.za  