Minister of Home Affairs, Dr Aaron Motsoaledi, recently published the 2021 Critical Skills List. More than 100 skilled occupations needing skilled professionals are named. Acute shortages have been identified. To see the list, visit http://www.dha.gov.za/images/PDFs/2020-Critical-Skills-List_Report.pdf Despite the high unemployment rate, there are still employers searching for workers in some fields in which there are not enough applicants. To enhance your chances and number of opportunities, it would be worth considering gearing your career choice to one of these. By doing so, you can take advantage of shortages in available candidates and a relative lack in competition. Information technology and communication Information technology and telecommunications directors, IT specialist managers, IT project and programme managers, IT business analysts, architects and systems designers, web design and development professionals, programmers and software development professionals. Engineering Civil engineers, structural engineers, site engineers, electrical engineers, mechanical engineers, electronics engineers, design and development engineers, production and process engineers, façade designer, materials scientists and setting out engineers. Health professionals and clinical sciences Medical practitioners, industrial pharmacists, radiation therapists, radiographers, gastro-intestinal technologists, vascular technologists, physiologists, audiologists, perfusionists, senior health services and public health managers, registered nurses, clinical nurse specialists, clinical nurse managers, advanced nursing practitioners, registered midwives, clinical midwife specialists, clinical midwife managers, advanced midwife practitioners, orthoptists, prosthetists, orthotists, PHECC registered paramedics and PHECC registered advanced paramedic practitioners. Architects, town planners and surveyors Architects, quantity surveyors, architectural technologists  and construction project managers. Business, management and economics Chartered and certified accountants, taxation experts, qualified accountants, tax consultants, business and financial project management professionals, actuaries, statisticians and economists. Natural and social science professionals Chemical scientists, medical laboratory scientists, biological scientists, biochemists and physical scientists. Quality and regulatory professionals Quality control and planning engineers, quality assurance and regulatory professionals and environmental health professionals. Media/artistic/literary/design category: Media professionals Art director in 2D or 3D animation. Artistic, literary and media. Animation background and design artist in 2-D or 3-D animation. Design Location designer in 2-D or 3-D animation, character designer in 2-D or 3-D animation, prop designer in 2-D or 3-D animation, animation layout artist in 2-D or 3-D animation. Sales, marketing and related associated professionals Business sales executives. Sports and fitness High performance coaches. IOL 